---
aliases: [journal]
tags: [Obsidian, ] 
date: Jul 24th, 2022
---

[[Obsidian Usage]]
[[玩转 Obsidian 03：间歇式日记]]
- What
	- 在做完一件事情或做事的休息途中，记录上一段时间内工作内容，计划之后要做什么
- How
	- 在 Weekly Notes 里面先记录每日待办，记录 First Approach， 记录 Previous Project,  写日记，写详细
- Why
	- 忘掉之前的事情，准备接下来的事情，达到更专注做一件事情的目的
	- 记录任务完成的时间，[[奇特的一生]]-- 柳比歇夫
	- [[任务切换]] 成本降低

# Replace Your To-Do List With Interstitial Journaling To Increase Productivity
URL: https://betterhumans.pub/replace-your-to-do-list-with-interstitial-journaling-to-increase-productivity-4e43109d15ef

Every time you switch projects, open up your journal and enter the following three things: Note the time. Most people will find having these timestamps to be useful to look back on.Write a few sentences about what you just worked on. “What project did I just finish? Are there any parts of that project that I’m still thinking about?” Use complete sentences rather than one word answers. “Email. Yes.” is not a valid answer.Write a few sentences about what you’re about to work on. “What is the first action of the project I’m about to start? How should I approach getting the project done?”

A lot of people approach problems with hubris, hoping their brain will generate magical insight. Most often, they overload their brain by making the problem too hard. Then, their brain responds by generating mistakes.

This is why Interstitial Journaling calls for journaling about what you just finished working on. Often, you’re still thinking about that project. Write those thoughts down, empty your brain.That way, when you start your next project, you’ll be bringing your full brain rather than your distracted half-brain.

Part of your Interstitial Journal entry is to identify the Next Action of your project. The easier the action, the more likely you are to do it and the less likely you are to fall prey to procrastination.

So, the phrase First Action makes it easier to narrow in on a smaller action, like “Google Tire Store Phone Numbers” or even “Open Google.”

your journal is an opportunity for truth and honesty about yourself that you don’t normally have. I’m too ambitious about what I take on, while being cowardly about working hard. Putting those thoughts into a journal moves them from feelings that secretly rule my decisions to rational concepts that I can analyze and solve.

But, when I moved from a list to a journal, I realized that I could analyze myself as I tracked these tasks. There’s a particular reason to do this analysis, which comes from recent research on procrastination (summarized by Dr. Tim Pychyl in one of the first Medium Members articles).

12:39. Edit Productivity Article... journal about the previous project ... First Action: Open draft. I tested out a new copy editor and need to see if I liked their edits.Darn. I don’t like this person’s edits. Oh well. The piece is too dense. I'm going to break up the longer paragraphs.Oh. Darn. I got distracted mid-way and ended up on Twitter. I don’t even know where or how. Oh. I was on HuffPo (which got unblocked on my computer), saw a post about Chris Evan’s dog, and that somehow led to Seth Rogen’s Twitter stream. Back to work.Need to rewrite these subheadings.Darn. Got stuck again — this time rewriting a sub-heading made me flip over to easier goofing off. Caught myself right away. The problem is skill. I don’t have a “theory of subheadings” and so I don’t have any strategy for rewriting this one. Back to it and this time I'll trust my gut about what makes a good subheading.Got tripped up one more time. When I saved the piece, I saw my Medium notifications and ended up responding to someone’s response to one of my posts.Back at it. Just have to drop the article into Asana for Medium’s managing editor to publish. Checked on image rights. Had to learn how to use Google Image search via uploaded image.1:35pm. Done.

为 * 你 _